README.md, before:

# Content Record Scraper

## Introduction

This repository contains a scraper that will scrape information from the Content
Record DAC. It will periodically download the index and page files used by the
Content Record and persist those in a Mongo database.

## Data Model

In the mongo database there will only be two collections:

- `entries`
- `users`

In the `entries` collection we keep track of all of the content that gets
created, alongside all the interactions that occur with that content. In the
`users` collection we keep track of all the users and we also keep state. This
state prevents the scraper from unnecessarily re-indexing already indexed
content and/or interactions.

The users are very important as they will need to be feeded to the scraper. The
scraper does not extend its user base on its own, it will only scan the content
records for the users it knows, and keep those up-to-date.

## Architecture

The scraper is built around three cronjobs:

- fetch skapps
- fetch new content
- fetch interactions

`Fetch skapps` one has only one job which is to update the user's skapp list. This
list of skapp names is kept in a separate json file by the content record DAC.
We periodically download that and update the user object in our database.

`Fetch new content` is slightly more involved, but simply put will scrape all
users in the user DB and look for new content entries and add them. The content
record DAC keeps an index file that points to a fanout file called a page. The
scraper will internally keep track of its latest sync offsets.

The algorithm itself is simple, it will simply download new entries from its
previous offset, to the current offset. When it is done it will update the
user's state in the database. This ensures that restarting the scraper does not
mean we have to re-index.

`Fetch new interactions` is identical to the fetching new content, it will just
keep track of different offsets in the user object.

**NOTE**: it is perfectly possible to reset the state or re-index by doing
manual queries on the mongo database, or simply throw it away alltogether

## Environment Variables

The scraper needs some environment variables set to be able to run. If you want
to run the scraper using non-default settings, be sure to update these, the
scraper will log its current env variables when it boots.

- **MONGO_CONNECTION_STRING**: defaults to `mongodb://localhost:27017`
- **MONGO_DB_NAME**: defaults to `content-record`
- **CR_DATA_DOMAIN**: defaults to `contentrecord.hns`
- **SKYNET_PORTAL_URL**: defaults to `https://siasky.net`

## Usage

There's a script you can run to start the scraper with. It's located in the
`scripts` directory under `start.sh`. There's also a `Dockerfile` should you
want to run the scraper as a docker container.

```shell
// start mongo
docker-compose up -d

// start scraper
npm run start
```

NOTE: the scraper runs off of user data that needs to be feeded to the scraper.
That data are users, so there is a user discovery part that is not included in
the scraper, instead there's another process that simply inserts an empty user
object in the database, which gets picked up by the scraper from there on out.

This is important if you want to debug the scraper. To do so, simply insert the
following record in the `users` collection of the Mongo DB:

```json
db.getCollection("users").insertOne({
  "pubkey": "f301891b7e41b107beefe91a133d6efa8c7b0dfe0f5e39650c34b8311c365d39",
  "skapps": [],
  "newContentCurrPage": NumberInt(0),
  "newContentCurrNumEntries": NumberInt(0),
  "contentInteractionsCurrPage": NumberInt(0),
  "contentInteractionsNumEntries": NumberInt(0)
})
```

You can do this through the mongo shell or use a mongo client like Robo3T or
MongoDB Compass. For convenience the above users is inserted automatically when
the scraper starts.

Commit message:

Add mutex lock, cleanup scraper, dockerize setup

README.md, after:

# Content Record Scraper

## Introduction

This repository contains a scraper that will scrape information from the Content
Record DAC. It will periodically download the index and page files used by the
Content Record and persist those in a Mongo database.

## Data Model

In the mongo database there will only be two collections:

- `entries`
- `users`

In the `entries` collection we keep track of all of the content that gets
created, alongside all the interactions that occur with that content. In the
`users` collection we keep track of all the users and we also keep state. This
state prevents the scraper from unnecessarily re-indexing already indexed
content and/or interactions.

The users are very important as they will need to be feeded to the scraper. The
scraper does not extend its user base on its own, it will only scan the content
records for the users it knows, and keep those up-to-date.

In the future we might extend the scraper with an extra cron job that scrapes
friends from friend list on Skyfeed to have some form of user discovery
mechanism built in.

## Architecture

The scraper is built around three cronjobs:

- fetch skapps
- fetch new content
- fetch interactions

The cronjobs run every 15 minutes, however they are guarded by a mutex so if a
cron is not finished after 15 minutes, it will not spin a new worker, instead it
will wait until the next iteration.

`Fetch skapps` one has only one job which is to update the user's skapp list. This
list of skapp names is kept in a separate json file by the content record DAC.
We periodically download that and update the user object in our database.

`Fetch new content` is slightly more involved, but simply put will scrape all
users in the user DB and look for new content entries and add them. The content
record DAC keeps an index file that points to a fanout file called a page. The
scraper will internally keep track of its latest sync offsets.

The algorithm itself is simple, it will simply download new entries from its
previous offset, to the current offset. When it is done it will update the
user's state in the database. This ensures that restarting the scraper does not
mean we have to re-index.

`Fetch new interactions` is identical to the fetching new content, it will just
keep track of different offsets in the user object.

**NOTE**: it is perfectly possible to reset the state or re-index by doing
manual queries on the mongo database, or simply throw it away alltogether

## Environment Variables

The scraper needs some environment variables set to be able to run. If you want
to run the scraper using non-default settings, be sure to update these, the
scraper will log its current env variables when it boots.

- **MONGO_CONNECTION_STRING**: defaults to `mongodb://localhost:27017`
- **MONGO_DB_NAME**: defaults to `content-record`
- **CR_DATA_DOMAIN**: defaults to `contentrecord.hns`
- **SKYNET_PORTAL_URL**: defaults to `https://siasky.net`

## Usage

```shell
docker-compose up -d
```

If you want to develop or debug manually, you can comment out the scraper
service and connect only to mongo. Then however you have to start the scraper
manually by executing `start.sh` in `scripts`.

NOTE: the scraper runs off of user data that needs to be feeded to the scraper.
That data are users, so there is a user discovery part that is not included in
the scraper, instead there's another process that simply inserts an empty user
object in the database, which gets picked up by the scraper from there on out.

This is important if you want to debug the scraper. To do so, simply insert the
following record in the `users` collection of the Mongo DB:

```json
db.getCollection("users").insertOne({
  "pubkey": "f301891b7e41b107beefe91a133d6efa8c7b0dfe0f5e39650c34b8311c365d39",
  "skapps": [],
  "newContentCurrPage": NumberInt(0),
  "newContentCurrNumEntries": NumberInt(0),
  "contentInteractionsCurrPage": NumberInt(0),
  "contentInteractionsNumEntries": NumberInt(0)
})
```

You can do this through the mongo shell or use a mongo client like Robo3T or
MongoDB Compass. **For convenience the above users is inserted automatically when
the scraper starts.**
